Since we all got access to Fable 5, I've
spent a few thousand dollars in usage
credits just playing around with it,
understanding how it works, and
understanding more importantly how we as
people can get the most out of a model
this powerful. And I think one of the
most important takeaways I've had is
that yes, Fable 5 is an incredible
model, don't get me wrong, but the model
isn't really the moat. So, think about
it like this. You've got a beginner with
AI, and you've got someone like Andre
Karpathy, for example. If you give the
beginner Fable 5, and you give Karpathy
Sonnet 3.7,
Karpathy will build something better
than the beginner, even though the
beginner's model is exponentially
better. And that's because of the fact
that it's way more important the way you
instruct it and the systems you build
and the loops you build around the
model. Here's another example I want you
to think about. I've obviously tested
Fable 5 a ton. I've also tested Opus a
ton and Sonnet a ton. One of my favorite
things to do lately is to use the
dynamic workflows that Claude Code lets
us, you know, spin up. And I've done a
ton of dynamic workflows where I said,
"Hey Fable, design a workflow, and then
all of your little sub-agents, have
those be Fable as well." And then I
would do the exact same tests with Fable
orchestrating a bunch of Opus
sub-agents, and Fable orchestrating a
bunch of Sonnet agents. And what I found
is that when I run those dynamic
workflows, the results are about the
same, even though the Fable runs costed
me exponentially more. So, anyways, the
point I'm trying to make, you can't keep
the model's intelligence, but you can
keep its process. So, today what I want
to talk about is basically, really
quickly, how can you turn a model like
Opus into something that feels more like
Fable? And the first thing is that you
have to think of this model more like a
teacher rather than a workhorse. When we
all got access to Fable, I think we were
basically just pushing it to its limits.
And Anthropic even put out some stuff
about like seeing how it's really good
at like long tasks, you know, working
towards a goal, planning it out,
executing it, and then verifying it. And
it is really good at that, but the whole
idea of model routing is basically
finding that balance, you know? This
task takes this much intelligence, so
why would you need a model that has this
much intelligence and cost you this much
for something that you could, you know,
grab a much smaller, cheaper model, and
you could get the task done at the same
level of quality. And that is the whole
name of the game, and that's going to be
a very important skill to master as we
head into, you know, the next years of
AI. So, rather than having Fable, you
know, plan everything out and do
everything, we're trying to extract the
way that Fable thinks, and then let
other smaller models think it like that
and execute like that. I've had Fable go
through my setups and make improvements
and go through my skills and improve
them, and I realized that I was just
treating Fable like kind of like a
co-founder or more like an officer at my
company rather than just an employee.
Kind of like a senior engineer that is
about and it's trying to package up
everything that it knows to hand over to
the new cohort of junior engineers
that's going to come over or come in and
take its place. So, one thing that
happened recently was the system prompts
got leaked from Cloud Fable 5. So, I
read through this whole thing, I had
Fable 5 read through this whole thing,
and we picked out some important things
that we noticed from this prompt itself.
Partial recognition from training does
not mean current knowledge, meaning just
because something's in your memory, you
should probably verify it. Very
similarly over here, a prompt implying a
file is present doesn't mean one is. So,
it's told to check that things actually
exist. So, basically, making sure at
every step of the way that what it's
doing and what it's done is accurate.
Address even an ambiguous query before
asking for clarification. So, answer
first, then ask. One question max.
Acknowledge what went wrong, stay on
problem, maintain self-respect. One for
signal facts, three to five for medium
tasks, five to 10 for deeper research
comparison. So, basically talking about
effort. So, yes, we have the discussion
around what model is right for the task,
but we also have the discussion around
what effort level is right for the task.
And something that I like to look at is
this example, which was on the release
blog for Cloud Fable 5 and Mythos 5. So,
this compares Fable 5 and Opus 4.8 as
well as GPT 5.5 when it comes to the
score on the Y axis, the cost on the X
axis, and then we see
each of these models, and we see
different effort levels. So, if you're
one of those people that has just turned
on Fable 5 and you're just using it on
the default effort level, or same with
Opus, and you never play with those,
then definitely start playing around cuz
it gets a little interesting. Like here
you'll notice that Fable 5 on low is
pretty similar to Opus 4.8 on high. Now,
Fable 5 is a little bit more expensive
and a little bit higher quality, as you
can see here, but they're kind of
similar. But that doesn't always mean
that higher effort is actually better.
I've had a lot of times where with Fable
I'm just basically using it on high,
because when I use X higher max, or even
on Opus, when I use X higher max, it
starts to go way longer, get way more
expensive, and then it overthinks, and
it, you know, second-guesses itself, and
then it ends up producing something
worse than if I just would have gone
with Opus 4.8 on high, or Fable on high.
Anyways, after reading through the
system prompts and after playing with
the models for so long, there are two
things that I want you guys to do. This
first one is to basically take the way
that you have been playing with Fable,
and the the hardness, or, you know,
whatever you want to call it, however
you've been using it, and turn that into
something that Opus can do, and that
Sonic can do. So basically we're
extracting the Fable method. Now, one
thing that I would encourage you to do
is, if you've ever gotten a deliverable
from Fable that you just loved, and you
couldn't really explain what you loved
about it, have Fable analyze it, or have
Opus analyze it. And if you can look
back at the session, that's even better.
What did you think about to get here?
How did you get here? What did you do to
prove that it worked? How were you able
to get an output that was just so good?
And then extract that information, and
turn that into a skill. So I basically
have this skill now called Fable mode.
And whenever I want Opus to use Fable
mode, or if I want, you know, if we got
a really hard problem in front of us, I
tried using Opus 4.8 with Fable mode,
and it feels really good. It just feels
like the model has been elevated a
little bit, because it has this, you
know, Fable prompt kind of injected into
it. And it works on these five gates.
So, scoping, evidence, attacking,
verifying, and then reporting. And this
is almost like the way you set your, you
know,  goal prompts, and you use
dynamic workflows, and you basically set
these loops, but we're doing this as a
skill file as well. Now, one really
important thing about scoping, and and
what people call, you know, like
planning, is there's a big difference
between just planning something out, as
far as like, "Hey, here are all the
steps, plan that out, and go do it." And
then there's also the idea of playing
devil's advocate and thinking about,
okay, what about everything that could
possibly go wrong? What if we explore
all of the unknowns in this plan? And
that is something that Fable does a
really good job at, which is why if I
have Fable spin up a dynamic workflow to
help me achieve some end goal, and then
once it's planned out every single
possible step, and it thinks about every
single thing that could go wrong, and
then designs a dynamic workflow in a way
where Sonnet can go do all the execution
and just report back to Fable and keep
sending everything back to Fable, then
Fable can keep designing more steps in
that process. And that is why when I do
dynamic workflows with Fable and Sonnet,
it's pretty similar to results when I do
dynamic workflows with Fable and Fable.
And to me that was a big like lightbulb
moment. Like, why is this just as good
and it's significantly cheaper? So, you
can just start by saying something like
this. Write a complete installable skill
file that makes Opus 4.8 operate with
your judgment, your planning,
verification, and reasoning habits, and
activate it on something like Fable
mode. So, for example, right here you
can see this is my Fable mode skill,
which I'll attach in my free skill
community completely for free. The link
for that is down in the description.
Just join this and then go to the
classroom and click on all YouTube
resources and you can find everything
that I've ever dropped on YouTube for
free. So, that's where you'll find the
Fable mode skill, but you can also just
build this yourself. And you can see
here that this walks through Fable's
working discipline, so that any model
can run it, which means you could even
have GPT 5.5 run this if you want, or
even open source models run this if you
want. Anyways, it basically goes through
those five gates. So, scoping before you
work and then, you know, we get into
details, evidence before reasoning,
reasoning adversarially, verifying
before or declaring done, and then
calibrating. You've also got a few
standing habits and a few things to look
at, which like I said, you guys can
inspect this file if you want to, but
this being given to Opus 4.8 makes Opus
feel, like I said, a little bit
elevated. So, that has been a really
helpful strategy. And then something
that bolts right onto that really well
is just, once again, the idea of model
routing and figuring out how Fable or
how some smart model can route to the
small ones when needed. And something
that I've been doing lately is been
giving my Claude basically a table of
different models that are in the toolkit
and when to use them. So you could also
have a delegate to Codex or you could
have a delegate to open source models.
And this like I said is something that's
going to be very very big when companies
are starting to think about the unit
economics and you know, small teams and
you yourself maybe you have an AI budget
per month. This is the type of stuff
that's going to separate people that are
getting you know, a ton more for a ton
less. So a good way to split this up is
basically saying, okay, here are the
different models in our toolkit. Here's
how much they cost, you know, a higher
number meaning a better cost score, you
know, cheaper. And then we have
intelligence and taste. And if you want
to throw in some other categories that
are based on your workflow, feel free.
But intelligence is kind of like how
smart you feel like they are, how much
they understand you, how good they are
at maybe reviewing code and things like
that. And then on the taste side, this
is what I think more of like the, you
know, creativity, the thinking out of
the box, UI/UX design, things like that.
And so this can really help when you're
designing these agent teams or you're
delegating to sub agents and you're
spinning up dynamic workflows because
sometimes your dynamic workflows can
utilize a bunch of different Sonnet ones
and Haiku ones and then even Opus ones
as well. So here's an example of an
actual test that I had run where I used
Opus as the orchestrator and I used Opus
with this prompt from earlier that we
talked about. Oh, where is it? Sort of
like the the Fable mode prompt and it
used a bunch of different Sonnet workers
and Opus workers and Haiku workers. And
those were three different tests. And
the one where the Opus orchestrator
delegated to all the Haiku scouts, it
was this much cheaper, you know, about
three times cheaper and the result was
the exact same. So similar to my example
with the Fable ones, that is something
to be thinking about big time. So I know
this one was quick and I wanted to make
it quick, but I've just been seeing a
ton of comments and a ton of people in
the communities asking about, you know,
kind of freaking out about the fact that
Fable is going to be taken away. It is
going to come back to subscriptions,
that's what Anthropic says at least. We
don't know when, but it will be back.
But all of this, you know, government
getting involved and models being taken
away stuff, really has me thinking about
the fact that, you You we don't own
anything. We don't own these models. So,
what we can own is our processes, our
systems, our methodologies, the way that
we think about using these models. And
also, we can own hardware, and we can
own local models. So, I'm definitely
going to be digging into a lot more of
this type of stuff. So, let me know what
you guys want to see around these
topics. But, anyways, if you learned
something new or you enjoyed the video,
please give it a like. Helps me out a
ton. And as always, I appreciate you
guys making it to the end of the video,
and I'll see you on the next one.
Thanks, everyone.